---
sidebar_position: 3
---

# fmath library

[//]: # "This file is automatically generated."
[//]: # "Manual edits will be overwritten."

`fmath` contains a set of mathematical functions that work with FixedPoint numbers and integers. `fmath` replaces lua's `math` library in game scripts (you can use Lua's `math` library outside of game scripts).
* [max_fixedpoint()](#fixedpoint-max_fixedpoint)
* [random_fixedpoint(min, max)](#fixedpoint-random_fixedpointfixedpoint-min--fixedpoint-max-)
* [random_int(min, max)](#int-random_intint-min--int-max-)
* [sqrt(x)](#fixedpoint-sqrtfixedpoint-x-)
* [from_fraction(numerator, denominator)](#fixedpoint-from_fractionint-numerator--int-denominator-)
* [to_int(value)](#int-to_intfixedpoint-value-)
* [abs_fixedpoint(value)](#fixedpoint-abs_fixedpointfixedpoint-value-)
* [to_fixedpoint(value)](#fixedpoint-to_fixedpointint-value-)
* [sincos(angle)](#fixedpoint-fixedpoint-sincosfixedpoint-angle-)
* [atan2(y, x)](#fixedpoint-atan2fixedpoint-y--fixedpoint-x-)
* [tau()](#fixedpoint-tau)
## functions
### _FixedPoint_ max_fixedpoint()
Returns the maximum value a fixedpoint integer can take.
### _FixedPoint_ random_fixedpoint(_FixedPoint_ `min` , _FixedPoint_ `max` )
Returns a random fixedpoint value in the range [`min`, `max`]. `max` must be greater or equal to `min`.
### _int_ random_int(_int_ `min` , _int_ `max` )
Returns an integer in the range [`min`, `max`]. `max` must be greater or equal to `min`.
### _FixedPoint_ sqrt(_FixedPoint_ `x` )
Returns the square root of `x`. `x` must be greater or equal to 0.
### _FixedPoint_ from_fraction(_int_ `numerator` , _int_ `denominator` )
Returns the fixedpoint value representing the fraction `numerator`/`denominator`. `denominator` must not be equal to zero.
### _int_ to_int(_FixedPoint_ `value` )
Returns the integral part of the `value`.
### _FixedPoint_ abs_fixedpoint(_FixedPoint_ `value` )
Returns the absolute value.
### _FixedPoint_ to_fixedpoint(_int_ `value` )
Returns a fixedpoint value with the integral part of `value`, and no fractional part.
### _FixedPoint_, _FixedPoint_ sincos(_FixedPoint_ `angle` )
Returns the sinus and cosinus of `angle`. `angle` is in radian.
### _FixedPoint_ atan2(_FixedPoint_ `y` , _FixedPoint_ `x` )
Returns the principal value of the arc tangent of y/x. Returns a value in the range [0, 2π[.
### _FixedPoint_ tau()
Returns τ (aka 2π).
